+++
title = "Build Strong Connections to Land Your Dream Job"
date = "2023-08-18"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["top-of-mind", "career", "networking"]
+++

![Build Strong Connections to Land Your Dream Job](/images/size/w1200/2024/03/dream-job.png)

## Introduction

Imagine this scenario: You receive an email or LinkedIn message from someone you
may not know or haven't even met in person. They send you their r√©sum√© and ask
for a referral at your company. What would you do?

Not much? To be honest, you'll highly-likely ignore their request and ghost
them.

But why? Because while asking for your help they've overlooked a few steps, such
as:

* Checking whether you are available and willing to assist,
* Making sure they are approaching the right person,
* Or, inquiring about your suitability for their request.

And even more important than those, they are **selfish**; they haven't built a
relationship, and accrued enough goodwill to be able to ask help.

Would you want a selfish colleague in your team? Probably not.

Would you want someone who does not know how to approach people, and who does
not value others' time in your team? Again; probably not.

## You Don't Kiss on a First Date

Essentially, they're attempting to rush things and make a "_first date kiss_."

Unfortunately, that's not how networking works. This approach is likely to fail.

You may believe that reaching out to people indiscriminately increases the
chances of success---it's "_a numbers game_" after all. However, in reality,
this strategy has flaws because it's dishonest.

Let's see how we can improve our approach.

## Admit and Recognize that People are Busy

When it comes to networking, **there is no free lunch**. The more you give in to
your relationships, the more you'll get value in return.

Everyone has their responsibilities, agendas, and priorities. So, don't send
cold emails and cold LinkedIn messages to people and expect them to respond
back.

Know them; nurture a professional relationship with them.

If you don't act professionally and put in the effort needed, don't get
surprised when your messages are ignored or even result in being blocked or
reported 99% of the time.

Also if you don't act professionally, why would you assume that they will find
you suitable for a professional work environment? That's contradictory in
itself.

## Consider the Risks for the Person Referring You

Referring someone for an open position can seriously affect their reputation
within the company if the person gets the job but is not a good fit. Often, this
risk outweighs any benefit (_including referral bonuses_) they may receive if
you get an offer.

That's why you must show that you are more than capable of the role. And that,
again, boils down to **nurturing a professional relationship** with the person 
**months before**, NOT at the last minute when you see that fancy job
advertisement.

**Build relationships before you need them**.

## Understand the Significance of Your Request

You're asking a stranger to invest their time evaluating your skills, abilities,
and credentials. You might even expect feedback, and maybe ask them to pass
along your resume to parties. **That's a nontrivial demand**.

Again, nobody will spend any time doing that if you haven't already established
a well-founded professional relationship.

And, it's not about being rude; it is out of necessity: People have so little
time and so many things to do; so why should they help you if they don't have
confidence and trust in you.

And to nurture the confidence and trust, you need to **build a professional
relationship**. And that takes time, so you'll need to start building your
relationships way before you initiate your job search.

## Embrace Networking

That's the third time I'm mentioning **networking**. I think it highlights its
importance.

Effective networking requires **dedication**, **effort**, and **time**. It
requires mutual respect and understanding. Simply sending a "_please refer me_"
message as if you were a door-to-door salesperson won't cut it.

## Conclusion

In today's interconnected world, **networking** holds importance. Especially
when stakes are so high, the bar is raised to the moon, and everyone is hiring 
(_or wanting to hire_) A players.

Treat the process with care and thoughtfulness, and you'll find that your
connections are more fruitful and more likely to lead you toward the
opportunities you seek.

Avoid being someone who alienates allies by making attempts at connection
without building the necessary foundations first.

Invest in building connections, grasp the subtleties of engagement, and approach
your networking endeavors with genuine empathy and respect. The rewards will be
significant. Your career will flourish as a result.

Now, go get that job! And, may the source be with you ü¶Ñ.

## Section Contents

{{ top_of_mind_nav(selected=11) }}
